What is Cloud?
I have an application, but where to run this application.
The application will deploy in the server or run in the run but in which server we will deploy or run for example if i have 2 types of servers 
One is On Premises servers which is physical servers
Drawbacks --> High Maintenance, Needs Physical space, Hire Technical team, 24/7 technical Team availability, Scaling (No of servers) is not an easy  task
And the other one is Cloud Platform


What we required to run a application
Servers
Storage
Database
Networking IP addresses
Other Cloud Services

What is cloud Computing.
Cloud Computing is the delivery of computing services like servers, storage, Database, Networking and other software through internet.

Types of Cloud Computing

Cloud computing

Service Model 

SAAS  -- Software as a service -- 100% everything managed by infra , nothing to do as user.

PAAS --  Platform as a service -- 75% is managed by Infra and 20% will be managed by user (application running and data).
IAAS --  Infra as a service -- 50% is managed by Infra (aws) and 50% will be managed by user (application running, updates, data maintain.

Deployment model

Private cloud -- A Private cloud is dedicated exclusively to one organization. The infrastructure can be on-premises or hosted by third party provider, but the resources are not shared with anyone else.

Public cloud 

Hybrid cloud -- Combines both public and private clouds, allowing data and application to move between them.

Community Cloud -- It allows multiple organization to use same cloud to store their data

what are the cloud providers?
AWS, Microsoft Azure, IBM, GCP etc
What is AWS?

AWS is abbreviation as Amazon Web Services.
It is the best cloud provider
It is the  first among all the clouds
if offers multiple services on different domains
It is the combination of SAAS,PAAS,IAAS
It is one of the most popular cloud computing platform. Now a days most of the companies are using this cloud because of numerous that allow them to store their data easily without the need of a physical space.

AWS provides a wide range of cloud computing services that can be used to build and run application.
It can offers more than 200+ services on multiple domains
AWS covers about 31 geographics regions around the world.
AWS provides a wide range of security features ad compliance certifications that help customers to secure their applications can data in the cloud.
The AWS cloud spans 99 availability zones.
It allows users to select different operation systems, databases and languages.
It follows the pay as yo go, Model.

Advantages of AWS.

Automated multi-Region backups : If we lost our data in one region we will retrieve our data from another location.

Streamlined Disaster recovery : If in case there is wars, still our data is secure.

Security : Best security as compared to others.

Pay as you GO Pricing

Simple automated scheduling : some of our work is scheduling if we are away.

Customization : It provides any kind of systems OS examples : Linux, Windows and it can allows kind of programming language to run. Flexibles 

Third - Party APIS (Application programming interface) : We can integrate with any third party tool with AWS it open and highly secure

Speed and Agility : In AWS we can launch a server within 30 seconds.

Excellent customer support.


AWS account creation

Amazon EC2 -- Elastic Compute Cloud - to create a service in the AWS we used it.

What is Server?
Servers are the computers that run services to serve the needs of the user (to provide services to other computers) These server are used for various purposes like hosting websites, applications, storing and managing data.
Servers is nothing but a systems where we store our data.
It can fulfill the customer needs.

Types of servers
Web server : Apache, IIS, GWS google web server
Application server : Apache tomcat, IBM WebSphere
Email server
FTP server
SFTP server etc

For a server we have Operating system
Hardware ( CPU, RAM )
Security
Network
Storage

To run a application in the server, it had all requirements in the server level


To create a server -- we need 7 steps to create

step-1 : Name and Tags

Tags : To identify servers
Name : Web - server
Client : Swiggy
Environment : Production

step-2 : Amazon Machine image

Operating system
Software's etc

step-3 : Instance type

CPU & RAM (configuration)

Default:T2:Micro - 1-CPU&1-GB RAM
Max:u-24tb1.metal - 448-cups & 24,576-GB RAM

Step-4: Key-Pair

For safe & secure login to server
1.Public key : store by AWS
2.Private key : store by User
Private key : (PEM & PPK)


Step-5: Network & Security
VPC : Virtual Private cloud
1. Used to isolate servers
2. Responsible for Network
3. Creates our own Network

Step-6 : Firewall

Security groups - a group of rules. who are going to access our server
Inbound rules is required, outbound rules is not required.
For Linux 22ssh (secure shell/socket host) then only we can access the server
for windows 3389 port number
for webserver : 80 port number then only our request is sent to the server

Step-7 : Storage 

EBS : Elastic block store
to provide storage for the server
Default:8GB Max up to 16 TB


Creating a server(instance) by using a EC2(Elastic compute cloud) service creating a virtual instance - 7 steps required to build


Server (instance) -- There is a 2 ways to connect the instance
One is Console(AWS Account) 
Second one is Terminal (Putty, Mobaxtrem, CMD, vs code, git bash etc) terminal is used to connect the server through internet.

if we have an application -- Public IP it allows to access the application through the internet

To Run application --> access through internet --> public IP
used to connect the instance through internet --> public IP required

Private IP is used to access the application within the server through internet is not possible


Key-Pair -- 1.PEM : Privacy Enhanced Mail
2.PPK:Putty Private Key

Its not possible to connect with PEM key in Putty terminal

Server -- Public IP, Key-Pair, Username ---- to clear the traffic for the terminal 22 port is used  ( Inbound rule ) give to security group( is handle the traffic )


Frontend -- Webserver -- httpd(apache), Nginx, IIS -- deploy chyadaniki
backend --  application server -- tomcat, jboss
database -- db servers -- MySQL, mongodb

webserver installation -- httpd (port 80) to access the application 

command -- sudo yum install httpd -y


Linux -- OS (Operating system) is fast and secure

Types of commands 
1. System commands
2. Hardware commands
3. File commands
4. search commands
5. Software installation commands
6. User/group commands
7. Permissions commands
8. Networking commands
9. Editor commands

Sudo su - /sudo -i --> to switch as root user
exit or ctrl+d

system commands 
uname     -- which version of OS is used either Linux or windows or mac OS
uname -r  -- for kernel version update 
uname -a  -- to know all the info/details of the OS like OS, Version, hostname
uptime    -- to know the server from how long the server is running
uptime -p -- for the system uptime
ifconfig
ip route
ip addr -- to know the Private IP
hostnamectl set-hostname "Rajesh-server" to change the hostname
timedatectl -- to know the local time, universal time, time zone
timedatectl set-timezone Asia/Kolkata -- change the time to ISD or other 
locations
whoami -- to know in which user we are in
date +"%d" -- exact date
date +"%m" -- exact month
date +"%y" -- exact year
date +"%A" -- print the day as Monday, Tuesday
date +"%B" -- print the month name 
date +"%H" -- print the hours
date +"%M" -- print the minute's
date +"%S" -- print the seconds
date +"%F" -- Print the Year-month-date
date +"%D" -- print the month-date-year

ps -- to   -- know the processor running the OS
kill -9 PID(processor id)   -- To kill the unwanted processors 


Hardware commands

lscpu or cat /proc/cpuinfo -- to fetch all the cpu information
top   --- to know the CPU utilization to quit - give q back to root user
free -h -- to know the RAM information
free -- to know the RAM info as kilobytes
free -m -- info as megabytes

Storage
df -h -- to know the storage details

fdisk -l -- to know the volume details






git commit --amend --no-edit -- if we missed a file to add the recent commit e.g. : if we have 3 files called file1 file2 file3, missed file3  
git rm --cached "filename" -- to unstaged the files from staged file in git
git commit --amend --author "chinna<chinna@email.com>"  -- to change the recent commit author details
git reset --hard HEAD~1 -- to remove the recent commit from repo deleted everything include file data
git reset --soft HEAD~1 -- to remove the recent commit from repo but the files data remains same
git update-ref -d HEAD  -- to delete the all commits (if we use reset to delete the all commits we have one commit for sure) so instead that this command will delete all.
git revert "commit id" -- to delete the data in the specific commit data it delete and have a new commit id 
git branch -- to view the branches
git branch "id/name" to create a new branch
git checkout "branch name" to switch branch
git checkout -b Taduturi -- switch and create a new branch at a time
git branch -d filename -- to delete a branch





